A new page about Scala IDEs + reordering of Getting Started (#3042)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/getting-started/scala-ides.md

---
layout: singlepage-overview
title: Scala IDEs

partof: scala-ides

> permalink: /tutorials/:title.html

Reviewer: this permalink is the source of the HTMLproofer errors - the url is `/tutorials/scala-ides.html` - but it should probably be 
```suggestion
permalink: /getting-started/:title.html
```

---
layout: singlepage-overview
title: Scala IDEs

partof: scala-ides

permalink: /tutorials/:title.html

keywords:
- Scala
- IDE
- JetBrains
- IntelliJ
- VSCode
- Metals
---

> By Maciej Gorywoda

Reviewer 2: Although we very much appreciate you providing a first version of the page, I suggest removing the author credit. We don't generally include them on short factual pages; I think the text is likely to evolve a lot over time; and we have found that having an author credit discourages edits.

# IntelliJ IDEA + Scala Plugin

[https://jetbrains.com/scala](https://jetbrains.com/scala)

![](../../resources/images/getting-started/IntelliJScala.png)

IntelliJ IDEA is a cross-platform IDE developed by JetBrains that provides a consistent experience for a wide range of programming languages and technologies. It also supports Scala through the IntelliJ Scala Plugin, which is being developed at JetBrains. First, install IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition (unless you don't already use the Ultimate edition) and then add the IntelliJ Scala Plugin.

IntelliJ IDEA and Scala Plugin will assist you in virtually every part of a Scala software developer's work. Use it if you like a solid integrated experience, sane default settings, and tested solutions.

For more information, check out our tutorial [Getting Started with Scala in IntelliJ](/getting-started/intellij-track/building-a-scala-project-with-intellij-and-sbt.html)

# Visual Studio Code + Metals

[https://scalameta.org/metals](https://scalameta.org/metals)

![](../../resources/images/getting-started/VSCodeMetals.png)

> Visual Studio Code, commonly called VS Code, is a source code editor developed by Microsoft. Similar to how IntelliJ IDEA requires IntelliJ Scala Plugin to support Scala, you can get support for Scala in VS Code by installing an extension: Metals by Scalameta. In contrast to IntelliJ IDEA + Scala Plugin, VS Code + Metals is aimed at people who like to tinker with settings and try out experimental Scala features. Besides, Metals - the extension - is also available for a variety of other source-code editors, such as Vim, Sublime Text, and Emacs, which means that you will get a similar experience in any of them.

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't say that VS Code is complicated in terms of settings, other editors rather. Maybe we should highlight that is a LSP server?

`is aimed at people who like to get feedback and code intelligence straight from the compiler, which enables them to also try out experimental Scala features`

> Visual Studio Code, commonly called VS Code, is a source code editor developed by Microsoft. Similar to how IntelliJ IDEA requires IntelliJ Scala Plugin to support Scala, you can get support for Scala in VS Code by installing an extension: Metals by Scalameta. In contrast to IntelliJ IDEA + Scala Plugin, VS Code + Metals is aimed at people who like to tinker with settings and try out experimental Scala features. Besides, Metals - the extension - is also available for a variety of other source-code editors, such as Vim, Sublime Text, and Emacs, which means that you will get a similar experience in any of them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Visual Studio Code, commonly called VS Code, is a source code editor developed by Microsoft. Similar to how IntelliJ IDEA requires IntelliJ Scala Plugin to support Scala, you can get support for Scala in VS Code by installing an extension: Metals by Scalameta. In contrast to IntelliJ IDEA + Scala Plugin, VS Code + Metals is is aimed at people who like to get feedback and code intelligence straight from the compiler, which enables them to also try out experimental Scala features. Besides, Metals - as an [language server](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) - is also available to use with a variety of other source-code editors, such as Vim, Sublime Text, Zed, Helix and Emacs, which means that you will get a similar experience in any of them.
```
